README.md, before:

# RatavarG

### What is this?

This is a `PHP` application written at `Aug 20, 2013` when I was bored with the current image automatically generated by [Gravatar.com](http://en.gravatar.com/) in response to the anonymously status of my account. The thing is that I have no longer access to that old account, so before to create a new one with a different email address I've decided to have fun coding a **8-bits Avatar Generator**.

### Installation

Be sure that you have `php5-gd` installed, configured and enabled in you web server. Then you can use a HTML tag like this to generate an image that will change every time you refresh your web browser:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Avatar Generator</title>
</head>
<body>
</body>
    <img src="/avatar.php" width="300" height="300" />
</html>
```

If you have `PHP 5` it would be easy to use the built-in development server to test this code:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/cixtor/ratavarg.git
$ php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t ratavarg
```

There is a demo where you can test the functionality: [view HTML demo](http://cixtor.com/gravatar) - [view Image demo](http://cixtor.com/gravatar/avatar.1234567890.png)

### Image extension

You can change the avatar image extension from _php_ to _png_ or any other image format with a modern PHP Frameworks using **Routes** but in my case I'm using a **HTAccess** redirection. Copy and paste the following code into your `AccessFilename` (generally referred as `.htaccess`):

```
<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
    RewriteEngine on
    # RewriteBase /

    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d

    RewriteRule ^avatar.(png|jpg|gif)$ avatar.php [L]
</IfModule>
```

### What RatavarG means?

It is basically `gravatar` backwards. I don't want to have juridic problems with the copyright policies of [Gravatar.com](http://en.gravatar.com/).

### What is Gravatar?

According to [Gravatar.com - What is Gravatar](http://en.gravatar.com/support/what-is-gravatar/):

> An **avatar** is an image that represents a person online, basically a little picture that appears next to your name when you interact with websites. A **Gravatar** is a `Globally Recognized Avatar`. You upload it and create your profile just once, and then when you participate in any Gravatar-enabled site, your Gravatar image will automatically follow you there.

> Gravatar is a free service for site owners, developers, and users. It is automatically included in every **WordPress** account and is run and supported by [Automattic](http://automattic.com/).

### License

[Cixtor RatavarG](http://www.cixtor.com/) uses the [BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" license](http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).

Commit message:

Modified. MIT License instead of BSD

README.md, after:

# RatavarG

### What is this?

This is a `PHP` application written at `Aug 20, 2013` when I was bored with the current image automatically generated by [Gravatar.com](http://en.gravatar.com/) in response to the anonymously status of my account. The thing is that I have no longer access to that old account, so before to create a new one with a different email address I've decided to have fun coding a **8-bits Avatar Generator**.

### Installation

Be sure that you have `php5-gd` installed, configured and enabled in you web server. Then you can use a HTML tag like this to generate an image that will change every time you refresh your web browser:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Avatar Generator</title>
</head>
<body>
</body>
    <img src="/avatar.php" width="300" height="300" />
</html>
```

If you have `PHP 5` it would be easy to use the built-in development server to test this code:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/cixtor/ratavarg.git
$ php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t ratavarg
```

There is a demo where you can test the functionality: [view HTML demo](http://cixtor.com/gravatar) - [view Image demo](http://cixtor.com/gravatar/avatar.1234567890.png)

### Image extension

You can change the avatar image extension from _php_ to _png_ or any other image format with a modern PHP Frameworks using **Routes** but in my case I'm using a **HTAccess** redirection. Copy and paste the following code into your `AccessFilename` (generally referred as `.htaccess`):

```
<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
    RewriteEngine on
    # RewriteBase /

    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d

    RewriteRule ^avatar.(png|jpg|gif)$ avatar.php [L]
</IfModule>
```

### What RatavarG means?

It is basically `gravatar` backwards. I don't want to have juridic problems with the copyright policies of [Gravatar.com](http://en.gravatar.com/).

### What is Gravatar?

According to [Gravatar.com - What is Gravatar](http://en.gravatar.com/support/what-is-gravatar/):

> An **avatar** is an image that represents a person online, basically a little picture that appears next to your name when you interact with websites. A **Gravatar** is a `Globally Recognized Avatar`. You upload it and create your profile just once, and then when you participate in any Gravatar-enabled site, your Gravatar image will automatically follow you there.

> Gravatar is a free service for site owners, developers, and users. It is automatically included in every **WordPress** account and is run and supported by [Automattic](http://automattic.com/).

### License

```
Copyright (c) 2013, CIXTOR
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list
of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of the CIXTOR.COM nor the names of its contributors may be
used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
```
